
“Of Studies” is the first essay of the first collection of ten essays by Bacon, published in 1597. In this essay, Bacon has forcefully made comments on value and usefulness of reading and learning. While examining the benefits and effects of studies Bacon tells that studying alone is insufficient, learning must be balanced by experiences. Diverse study may help counteract personal imperfection.

Bacon proposes that study may be done for three proposes: - Firstly, it may be done for our own entertainment or just to get pleasure, such as reading books on favourite author, country, scene etc. Secondly, it may be done just for ornament, it means just to impress other or bring attention in hope of gaining our friend’s admiration. Lastly it may be done to gain competency and proficiency.

Study has several benefits and effects. It provides us valuable knowledge, reading and learning makes us full, conference makes us ready man, and writing makes us exact. Therefore reading, writing experiences, logical ideas and creative skills. It develops our discourse, intelligent capacity. Reading and learning must go together. University scholars read and learn varieties of books which provide them multiple careers.

1. reading history makes us wise.
2. reading poetry makes us witty/intelligence.
3. reading mathematics makes us subtle and creative.
4. reading moral makes us sober and profound.
5. reading natural philosophy makes us deep, wise and profound.
6. reading logic makes us argumentative.

Bacon suggests basically three kinds of books, studied differently. There are some books which are to be tasted (read not wholly but in parts). There are some books which are to be swallowed (books read to be hurriedly). There are some books which are to be chewed (books read with great care and attention). Thus reading alone is not sufficient enough, It must be followed by learning just as two sides of a coin to place the value of perfect study.

Questions:

1. “Studies serve for delight, for ornament and for ability”. Explain it.

2. What are three purposes, study may be done for? Discuss with appropriate examples.

3. “Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few to be chewed and digested”, How and why?

4. What are the benefits we achieve from proper study?

5. What is study? What are its benefits and creative effects? Do you agree with bacon? Write your own view on study with specific conclusion.