
The extract is an example of a growing type of literature with which scientists all over the worldhave to deal with. It is commonly considered as a short research on the contemporary big issueabout the problem of water supplies which is really challenging for Hydro Engineering at future.In a persuasive way the text has explored certain factors affecting the growing needs for waterproblems of water resources that may have long term effects not only for us but also forcreatures and plants on earth.

Need for water is constantly increasing phenomena still today scientists observed certain factors of these constantly increasing demand for water as follows:
It is happening because of:

-the growth of population in the world.
-the overall improvement of living standards of the people.
-the fight against the hunger through the irrigation of more land for growing food for increasing population
-the creation and expansion of new industries.
-growth of urbanization etc

Statistically, there is difficult to calculate how much water we need but it is estimated that intwenty years time the demand for water will be double. Facing with such situation it is clear thatwe should search as widely as possible and with every available means for sources for freshwater at the least cost. But where do the source of water exist?

A sustained and co-ordinate programme of scientific observation and research in hydrology are trying to solve the problem thinking it as their major responsibility.

The two water resources,surface water sources and underground water sources are being used.The underground water reserves are larger than those on the surface but they are unseen andunestimated. It is essential to use the underground reserves to solve the growing problem forwater but not haphazardly because it is needed to do immense research about thephenomena.For example: where does the water come from? how does it move? How is itrenewed? What effect will it have on the discharge and the future level of water table? Are thethe different questions still to be fully answered.

Chemist have clearly defined pure water made up of hydrogen and oxygen that cannot be foundin nature. The water like, river water and rain water always contain other dissolved or suspendedelements. Even they are in small quantities but very important sources of water. In the case ofirrigation and farming every drop of water brings with it a little salt. In the processes ofevaporation salt remains and gradually poisons soil and plants. We can remove the problem of itwith the help of leaching and drainage but concerning the effect of irrigation and drainage onquality of ground water. Some questions are still unanswered. Therefore it is needed to doscientific research that deals with quality of water.
The moisture in the layer of soil is essential for the life of plants. Evaporation from the soil andunderground water is limiting the ground-water which falls on the land. Do the trees replacesuch enormous loss of resources? Answers of these problems will only be found after a greatscientific research . That is because scientists and scientific discoveries have created theproblems which can also be solved by them.

QUESTIONS:

1.What are the different reasons of constantly increasing needs for water?

2.What are the two major sources of water? How they conferred each other?

3.What is pure water/ Why river water or rain water is not drinkable?

4.How water is extremely essential for all living things?

5.Why water supply is ever growing problem? How can we solve the problem of it ?
