The text is taken from ‘The History of knowledge’ a general survey of twentieth century. Scienceand technology. As the title suggests us the text gives the general survey on the great deeds ofpopular scientist, ‘Albert Einstein’. Furthermore it tells a short history of Einstein presenting himas both scientist and peacemaker.

Albert Einstein was born in the cathedral city of Ulm, Germany, in 1879. From his earlier age hewas so creative that made him the greatest scientist of the world. Unfortunately he didn’t do itand left the school. However anyway he managed his study again and got degree in mathematicsfrom the university in 1900. Then he returned back to what he had already been interested tosolve the riddle of the world. He proposed four papers published in 1905 which are interrelated.In the first paper Einstein explained ‘Brownian Motion’ which was previously existedphenomenon. In 1827 the biologist ‘Robert Brown’ noticed that if you looked at pollen grains inwater through a microscope the pollen jiggles about. He called his jiggling Brownian motion’, butBrown couldn’t work out what was causing it. Everything around us is made up off atoms andmolecules; the chair you’re sitting on, the food you eat, the air you’re breathing. The idea ofatoms has been around since the time of the ancient Greeks, and a century before Einstein, thegreat chemist John Dalton had suggested that all chemicals were made of tiny invisiblemolecules, which in turn were made of even tinier atoms. The problem was that there was noproof of their existence, until Einstein looked into the problem of Brownian motion.

Einstein explained the small particles suspended in liquid. He realized that the giggling of thepollen grains seen in Brownian motion was due to molecules of water hitting the tiny pollengrains, like players kicking the ball in a game of football. The pollen grains were visible but thewater molecules weren’t, so it looked like the grains were bouncing around on their own.Einstein also showed that it was possible to work out how many molecules were hitting a singlepollen grain and how fast the water molecules were moving and by looking at the pollen grains.Importantly, Einstein’s paper also made predictions about the properties atoms that could betasted. In the second paper Einstein resolved the three centuries old dispute about thecomposition of light. He proposed that light is composed of photons that sometimes exhibitwavelike characteristics and other times act like particles.

The theories of relativity are the most distinguished contribution proposed by Einstein in thirdand forth papers. Einstein stated that the theory of relativity belongs to the class of“principle-theories”. As such it employs an analytical method. This means that the elementswhich comprise this theory are not based on hypothesis but on empirical discovery. Theempirical discovery leads to understanding the general Characteristics of natural processes intotheoretical-mathematical descriptions. Therefore by analytical means the necessary conditionsthat have to be satisfied are deduced. Separate events must satisfy these conditions. Experienceshould then match the conclusions. The special theory of relativity and the general theory ofrelativity are connected.

His third paper which he called ‘Special relativity theory’ was more revolutionary because it wasapplied in different fields. Special relativity is a theory of the structure of spacetime. It wasintroduced in Einstein’s 1905 paper “on the Electrodynamics of Moving Bodies”. It is based onthe principle relativity if we can assume that the speed of light is always the same and the lawsof nature are constant then both time and motion are relative to observer. For example;passengers on two speeding trains are not aware of their overall speed as one going just a littlefaster than the other. The laws of physics are the same for all observers regardless of theirrelative to one another. The speed of light in a vacuum is the same for all observers regardless oftheir relative motion or of the motion of the source of the light. It has many surprisingconsequences. 

Some of these are:

Relativity of simultaneity: 
Two events, simultaneous for one observer, may not be simultaneous for another observer if the observers are in relative motion.

Time dilation :
Moving clocks are measured to tick more slowly than an observer’s “stationary” clock. Length contraction: Objects are measured to be shortened in the direction that they are moving with respect to the observer.

Among these papers proposed by Einstein Then fourth paper which he called General relativitytheory’ is the most important because it asked the question whether the inertia of the bodydepends on its energy content.He concluded with positive answer that ‘inertia had been held tobe depended on the mass alone. Such equivalence is expressed in the formula E=mc2 which isconsidered the most important piece of knowledge of advanced physics. He says ‘E’ the energyof quantity of matter with mass ‘m’ is equal to the product of mass and the square of the(constant) velocity of light ‘c’. The velocity which is also the speed of propagation ofelectrodynamic wave in space is very great: 300,000 kilometres per second squared the numberis enormous. Therefore in a tiny unit of matter a huge amount of energy is embedded. It is atheory of gravitation developed by Einstein In the years 1907-1915. The development of generalrelativity began with the equivalence principle, under which the states of accelerated motionand being at rest in a gravitational field ( for example when standing on the surface of the earth )are physically identical. The upshot of this is that free fall is inertial motion ; an object in free fallis falling because that is how objects move when there is no force being exerted on them,instead of this being due to the force of gravity as is the case in classical mechanics. This isincompatible with classical mechanics and special relativity because in those theories inertiallymoving objects cannot accelerate with respect to each other but objects in free fall do so. Someof the consequences of general relativity are:
Glocks run more slowly in deeper gravitational wells. This is called gravitational time dilation.Orbits process in a way unexpected in Newton’s theory of gravity. (This has been observed in theorbit of Mercury and in binary pulsars). Rays of light bend in the presence of a gravitational field.The Universe is expanding, and the far parts of it are moving away from us faster than the speedof light.The special relativity fits with and solves for elementary particals and thewir interactionwhere as general relativity solves for the cosmological and astro-physical realm. Special relativitywas widely accepted by physics community in 1920. That so why he got Nobel price for physicsin 1921.
There is no doubt albert Einstein was already being the greatest scientist of the world. But hewas pacifist a good peacemaker. He used to hate the war after 1918, feared that war would soonerupt again before renounced German people and went United States. There he continuedworking on the general theory searching the ways to make to make believed science asbeneficial rather than harmful. But in 1939, when ADOLF HITLER took over Germany in 1933Einstein renounced German people and went United States. There he continued working on thegeneral theory searching the ways to make believed science as beneficial rather than harmful.But in 1939, when the world reached him that two German physicists had split uranium, atom,with a slight loss of total mass that was converted into energy he realized that war in itself wasnot the only dangerous but the lunatics who used it. He discussed with his friends and wrote aletter to President Franklin D.Roosvelt to take some action to stop forth coming danger of warbut he got soft replies. He spends a lot money for the sake of peace but his quest for comingdanger of war but he got soft replies. He spends a lot money for the sake of peace but his questfor peace was completely ended when Japan attacked over Pearl Harbour. He noticed the worldwas already into the war. One the on hand he was happy because science was thousands ofsteeps ahead but he was brokenhearted because of devastating results of it. His last hope wasUnited Nations for the peace .When he died in 1955 he was the only man in the world whobelieved that he was right about the universe,he who had lead mankind to understand more ofthat structure than any scientist since Newton.

QUESTIONS:

1.Write a brief historical survey on Albert Einstein.

2.Write summary in one paragraph about Einstein’s deeds.

3.What is Einstein’s Brownian Motion? What are its consequences?

4.Explain Einstein’s special theory of relativity with one example.

5.What is Einestein’s general theory of relativity? Why it is a unique piece of knowledge for advanced physics?

6. State in two paragraphs Einstein as a scientist and a peacemaker.