      
Joseph Wood Krutch presents science in an indirect style mixing the magic of Nature with the marvel of scientific investigation skillfully interweaving the poetry of Walt Whitman with the facts of the theory of evolution.

The German writer ‘Goethe’ defines the grass as living garment of God”. Being naturalist he mixes up religious ideas with romantic feeling to the present grass in its real state. Grass possesses the omnipresent quality.

It is widely spread all over mountain,rock,valley,field etc as green object of nature about whichGoethe thinks green carpet, soft to feet, restfull to the eye,pleasurable to our soul and gift forour life. It is flourishing and withering according to the symphony of Nature. It is following thesystem of Nature as other living things which is miracle for Goethe because it is not supernaturalrather than fact in Nature.

Like Goethe scientist present grass in an objective reality. Botanists define ‘grass is one amongnumerous genera and species which compose that the family of monocotyledonous floweringplants long known as Gramineae’. According to them all the varieties of grass belong to the sameclass. Concerning its revolutionary history it was confused since the fossil record was not found.But its history is not before the air breathing animals crawel on earth. But now grass conferredupon different species like wheat paddy etc which are tremendous blessing out of the evolution.American poet,Walt Whitman wrote poem ‘leaves of grass’ with the fact of the theory ofevolution which is considered as masterpiece. What is grass? answering the question poet saysgrass represents the unity of national mind and character which is the true spirit of his nation,manifesting changes and progress from the part of God’s design. It is ultimately a scented gift forus. But today people are totally ignorant about the tremendous gift of it. Which we called breadthough. We are desperately busy seeking recreation, entertainment and recreation like plasticfor china, neon light for dawn and sunset or mass produced bread of the texture of cotton incontrast to homemade bread. People are busy seeking experience such joy substituting thesethings. Of course ‘joy be with us’. But such ways of getting joys are funny things for those whowants to have infinite joy of originality. Henry David Thoreau once explained that he did notdrink wine because he was afraid it might spoil his taste for water. Now a days people aremoving over things very fastly but now as never before nearly everybody can have rather toomuch of many things not worth having . Deprivation can kill joy especially for those who alwayswant more. More toys a child can play with are burden not a blessing.

Francis Bacon wrote “The happiness of the great” which consists only in thinking how happyothers must suppose them to be. In his time the term “status” was popular which is widelyaccepted by sociologists today which had not been invented by them. The desire for status is thesame desire to be envied for Louis xiv because she says no one else in the world can have asmany tulips as I can and they will envy me. For Joseph Wood they are over deprived which haskilled his joy because the whole eighty seven thousands of tulips look dull for him.Economists like Puritan Thorstein Veble said grass is a “status symbol”. They took the grass undertheir principle of lost and profit which author says wrong judgement. Grass is not merely a lawnor status symbol. Beyond of it beauty of it must be taken into consideration. In that sense theyare failure to produce more pleasure for the additional effort.

Author suggests us to live down upon lawn to see what happens if we doubt an experimentmight be worthwhile. The little miracles rises its flower toward the sun.Grass lie down on thesurface of earth refreshing fair beauty of spring’s true face bringing the freshness for allcreatures accompanying with them. Furthermore if we go through the experiment of biologistsmiracles rises through its evolutionary history.

The popular statement “all flesh is grass” is widely accepted by scientists and religious peoplelike St.Peter too. For St. Peter all flesh is grass because man too “withereth and the flowerthereof falleth away”. For botanists “all flesh is grass” is more than that of st.peter. No creaturecould exist if it were not for the fact green plants mediate between them and inanimatematerials of the earth. They only have the power of rising by one step the relative simplicity ofthe mineral to the complexity of the protein becomes protoplasm mysteriously which is theessence of creatures’ life. In time, a man passes away, he also withers and the flower thereoffalls away, protoplasmdescends the scale again to merely mineral and grass picks it up again torepeat the cycle. In such revolutionary way the process began some billions of years ago mustcontinue as long as life lasts.

The literal and scientific truths about the miracles of the grass are equally verified just as one isold and another is new one. But here is a big issue raises by the question, which of the two:moral truth of the apostal or the truth of the biologists, is the most profound and the mostimportant? Auther tells us that we may be wrong when we give stress to the particular onebecause there is a fine chemistry in between them. But it is known that many civilizxations werecreated and then destroyed by men who were innocent of this chemistry. It might be possiblethat civilization will fail because we do know one one kind of truth and forget the other in ourpride.

QUESTIONS:

1.Why grass is miracle in Nature but not a miraculous thing?

2.How do scientists define grass?

3.Write the attitudes of puritans and naturalists looking at the grass?

4.How are Francis Bacon and Louis xiv similar in term of “status”?

5.Why economists are failure to produce more pleasure for the additional effort?

6.How does Walt Whiteman’s view on grass is evolutionary? Does it similar to the view of biologists?
