
Although the story has tried to say “Love as such is not bound by marriage or marital relation” as thetheme, it would be misleading to say that the main theme of “The Lady with the pet Dog” is one ofmoral corruption or sin. In fact, it is through this adulterous affair that Gurov discovers his humanity andeven his moral center. Gurov has always taken women for granted and has treated them withoutcompassion or respect. During the course of his affair with Anna, however, he becomes more and moreconcerned about the consequences of his actions. Chekhov’s treatment of morality is complex; he is notconventionally moralistic, yet his story suggests a strong personal morality. Gurov and Anna truly loveeach other, and their bad marriages are unfortunate aspects of their lives. Little sympathy orconsideration is offered to the respective spouses of the adulterous couple. But Chekhov enters intoindividual character and judges in moral ground.

Dmitri Dmitritch Gurov has been on vacation at Yalta, the seaside vacation town, for a fortnight when hehears of a new arrival. The young, fair-haired women of medium height wears a beret and has a whitePomeranian dog with her. She is often alone, and the other vacationers refer to her as “the lady with thedog.”

Gurov rationalizes that if she is here alone, without her husband, then he should make her acquaintance.Dmitri Gurov is under forty, but he already has three children: twelve year –old daughter and two schoolage boys. He also has a wife whom he despises, describing her as’’ unintelligent, narrow, inelegant, wasafraid of her and did not like to be at home. He is often unfaithfull to her and almost always speaks ill ofwomen in general, referring to them as “the lower race.”

However, while Gurov does not enjoy his wife’s company. A week has passed since Gurov and the ladywith the pet dog have become acquainted. One evening, they go to the groyne together, the harbor, towatch the evening steamer come in. They watch the new arrivals disembark, and as the crowed beginsto disperse, he puts his arms around her and kisses her passionately. They disengage, breathless, andwalk quickly toward her hotel. When they reach her hotel room, Gurov looks at her and begins toremember the women he has had in the past. There are some that are good-natured and cheerful lovers,and some like his wife who are hysterical and without passion in their love.

Anna is different from these women. She is still extremely young and inexperienced. As a result, sheagonizes over her fall from her role as dutiful, faithful wife to “the women who was a sinner.” Her firstwords after they have. Gurov returns to Moscow and again embraces his elite Moscow and againembraces his elite Moscow existence. He is certain that the image of Anna Sergeyevna will be gonewithin a month , relegated to a little-used part of his memory with his other lady friends. Surprisingly,Anna’s touching smile has only grown more vivid in his minds eye after a month. She is with himeverywhere, and her image becomes clearer and more lovely than it had been the day after they had separated.

Gurov is tormented with the need to confide these new feelings in someone. One evening, after supperat the doctors’ club with a friend, he remarks suddenly, “If only you knew what a fascinating woman Imade the acquaintance of in Yalta!” The friend says nothing. He gets into his sledge and is driving away,Anna complaint. Her husband believes her. It does not matter much to Anna.

One day Gurov takes his daughter to school on his way to see Anna. It occurs to him that he has twolives. One is open, seen and known, and the other is secrete. He realizes that he does everythingdeceitfully in his unconcealed “true” life to conceal the truth that his secret life is the real him.

Gurov reaches Anna’s hotel, and when she lets him in she is crying. He sits down in an armchair towaitnout her emotional outburst. He tings for tea as she cries bitterly from “the miserable consciousnessthat their life was so hard for them.” He begs her to stop, realizing perhaps for the.

QUESTIONS:

1. What important things do we learn about love in the story ‘The Lady with The Pet Dog’?

2. Write the character of Dmitri Dmitritch Gurov in about 150 words.

3. Write in two paragraphs how did Mr Gurov meet the lady and what did the basic differences he notice in her?

4. Describe Mr Gurov’s attitude to “marriage”.
