
G.B.Shaw’s freedom actually belongs to one of the series of radio talks delivered by him in 1935 on theBBC. As it was intended for the larger circles in their capacity as listeners, the lecture seems to be freefrom theoretical jargons. But Shaw can be very much deceptive in what he says. For behind his humourlies the satire of the contemporary social condition. Not only that, his simple talk was actuyally adenunciation of the conventional and capitalist view of freedom. Politically Shaw conformed todemocratic socialism, a variant of Marxism, according to which the society should try to reach thesocialist political condition gradually by the democratic means. The concept of freedom, which Shawsatirizes, was the fundamental principle of Enlightnment , and he does so because in a capitalist society,according to the Marxian view, can be called completely free in such a condition, in which he will be ableto “do what he likes, when he likes, and where he likes, or do nothing at all if he prefers it”. He firmlydenies the possibility of the existence of such a person as human beings are all slaves to nature: “…wemust all sleep for one third of our lifetime-wash and dress and undress-we must spend a couple of hourseating and drinking-we must spend nearly as much in getting about from one place to place .” From thisfunny yet inexorable condition of human life, Shaw very clearly moves on to the fact that some of the“natural jobs” can be placed on others’ shoulders: “What you do to a horse or a bee, you can do to aman or woman or child….sort”. With this Shaw, however, comes to the immediate social and politicalcondition of the time, in which the concept of freedom derived from the grand idealistic project of theEnlightenment, and nationalistic bias produced by the First World War was being glorified and used bythe upper class as a means to achieving their self- interests. According to Shaw the farce of thedemocratic system in a capitalistic state lies in the fact that “most actual governments…enforce yourslavery and call it freedom”. But the citizens of the state continue to be duped by the system instead ofrising to protest. Shaw terms this unequal relationship ‘”the unnatural slavery of man to man.

Shaw points out an important difference between the “natural slavery of man to Nature and theunnatural slavery of man to man’’. According to him, the first, though unavoidable, provides pleasureafter its fulfillment; for instance, if nature forces us to drink. She makes drinking pleasant. The same istrue of eating, ddrinking, sleeping and other activities. Shaw introduces this difference and sitesexamples more importantly to explain the evils of the former in more accurate terms. He refers to fewthinkers like karl Marx and Thomas Moore, who denounced this slavery and tried to abolish it. At thispoint his explanation of the capitalist mechanism, that is, the means by which the system tries to dupepeople and establish, legitimize and perpetuate itself approaches the ideological theories of Althusserand Gramsci. “ideology represents”, Althusser tells us, “the imaginary relationship of individuals to theirreal condition of existence.”

He points out that there are found a number of ideologies _namely, religious ideology,ethical ideology,legal ideology, political ideology_all of which operate invisibly in the superstructure. Shaw strikes at thevery root when he says, “Naturally the master class,through its parliaments and schools and newspapers,makes the most desperate efforts to prevent us from realizing our slavery.” He explains historically howthe British capitalist system has established itself by propagating the so –called glorious events as theMagna carta, the defeat of the Spanish Armandas and Napolean. Then he explains how “ideologicalapparatuses”, to quote Althusser, manipulate the common mass to cast votes in favor of the capitalistleaders. What is more alarmingly effective, according to him, is the educational system, which operatesin the superstructure and ends in deluding the master class much more completely”. Thus Shaw explainsthe difference between two kinds of slavery and conclusively tells the listerners/readers: “Wipe out fromyour dreams of freedom the hope of being able to do as you please all the time.” For, according to him,people have to remain occupied doing the natural slavery for at least twelve hours a day, while theirunnatural slavery is controlled and regulated by the legal and administrative system of the country.

QUESTIONS:

1. Who according to Shaw, is Perfectly Free Person?

2. Do all social and governmental regulations aim at regulating man’s slavery ?

3. What are the basic differences between natural slavery and unnatural slavery according to Shaw?

4. What means does the master class use to maintain the upper hand of the slave class?

5. Why do most workers or women vote for their social superiors?

6. How does a civilized society protect its citizens?

7. What are Shaw’s views on working hours and retirement?