
‘Civil Peace” takes place in the year after the Nigerian civil war has ended. Nigerians such as Jonathanfeel fortunate simply to still be alive, as evidenced by the “current fashion” of greeting people with thewords “Happy Survival!” .Now they face the monumental task of rebuilding both their country and theirlives. Their difficulties are described throughout the story, both through the plight of Jonathan’s familyand that of his neighbours and acquaintances. A wealthy neighbour’s home has been reduced to amountain of this story is about an optimist man called happy survival. He and his wife and his threechildren out of four survived from the war. His bicycle and his houses were saved too. He founds way toearn money and pass his life. His family also found job like selling mangoes or making breakfast to earnmoney. By the bicycle he went to villages and bought wine and mixed it with water and sold it to millitarysoldiers. By this job he opened a bar and sold wine instead of going to miner. At that time mostneighbours were so poor and had nothing to eat or nowhere to sleep. One day he earned 20 pounds asan egg-rasher. The other person who had that much money were killed by thieves. He was so scared andfelt insecure till went home. At night’s he was awakened by noise of the knocking in the door. He and hisfamily after some time understood they were thieves and they called police but no one came to helpthem and the thieves were the neighbours. They wanted his money and family were so scared. At lastafter a long argue he accepted to give them 20 pounds instead of 100 pounds they want and he washappy again because he could live safe without that money.

Civil peace presents the condition immediately after Civil war. It is an interesting and touching commenton quick and easy recovery from hardship. Most people are damaged by the aftereffects of the war butJonathan Iwegbu thinks himself very lucky to have survived although he has lost his youngest son. Hehad come out of the war with five inestimeable blessing his head, his wife Maria’s head and the heads ofthree out of four children as an extra bonus he has his bicycle which he digs up almost as good as newafter the fighting has stopped. This bicycle was almost seized by the military officer but he got it byspending two pounds. Then he finds his little house in Enugu is still standing, despite the absence ofminor details like doors windows and a roof. For someone who sees everything in a positive terms, this isanother miracle. And now the family starts its journey back to normality and prosperity. The children sellmasngoes and his wife sells akara balls and he sells his palm wine. For one point of view it is a meagerthing material with which to start a new life but to yhe very optimistic Jonathannit is, after the horrors ofwar, blessing upon blessing. The final wind fall is the ex-gratia payment he receives. It confirms his beliefin a generous god. ‘Nothing Puzzles God” is his catchphrase.

That same night there occurs a further return to normality when thieves pay the long suffering Jonathan visit. But this too has changed its nature because of the war. First of all, the thieves knock on the doorand politely announces themselves. ‘No tief man and his people’,when the family screams for help thethieves offer their assistance knowing no one will come to help and that the soldiers are more to befeared than themselves.

Once that has been settled they are prepared to be reasonable. They say that they are not bad thieves totrouble the people that war as well as trouble has finished, and that it is the time of civil peace. After theuneasy negotiation Jonathan comes to accept the new conditions of civil peace and hands over hisegg-rasher. Although the great mass protest, the leader as a god ties’ promises a fair business. “We justtake our small money and go” when his neighbours appear in the early morning to express theirsympathy, the family is at work again. And Jonathan has written off his egg-rasher: Did I depend on it lastweek? Or is it greater than other things that went the war?....

Nothing puzzles God! Once again his optimistic fatalism enables him to rise above the difficulty.Everything that life provides is a bonus. In this fine story Achebe carefully maintains the balance betweenrealistic reportage and the firm shape of the fable so that the result tells us more about the war and itsafter-effects than any account of detailed documentation.

QUESTIONS:

1. What is the significance of the term “Civil Peace”? What does it imply?

2. What is meant by “Happy Survival” in the story?

3. How does the leader of the thieves distinguish good thieves from bad thieves? Why do you think he makes this distinction?

4. What is Mr.Jonathan Iwegbu’s philosophy of life? How does he approach and deal with good situations and bad situations?

5. Write the character of Jonathan Iwegbu in about sixty words.