
"The mother of a traitor" by Maxim Gorky is a short story which deals with dual love: love for thecountry and love for the son. Monna Marinna's son has become enemical towards his own country. Hedoesn't have any real grudge (Complaint) against the country. However, he wants' to destroy the wholecity and thus become popular amount the citizens. He wants that each citizen and each and every objectof the country should know his name and get afraid of him. He is now the head of the troops who havesurrounded the city from all sides and are ready to set fire into it. 

There is restlessness everywhere in thecity. No one is happy. All the people are crying bitterly out of pain. The enemies are giving utmosttortures to the citizens. They have been deprived of all kinds of facilities. The enemies have brown deadbodies into all the streams that supply water to the city. The citizens have lost all kind of hope of life.Everything spoke to them of death, and not a star was there in the sky to give them consolation. Theywere also afraid to light the lamp son the houses at night. Monna Marinna herself is not happy withwhat her son has become. She thinks of her son and her country as a mother and citizen respectively.

She had thought previously that her son would become a great leader of the country and would dosomething for the nation. But, to her great dismay, she has found her son as different and heartlesscitizen to all the people. He has betrayed his own country and also his own mother. Marinna has equallove for her son and for her native city. But, as a mother her heart is weeping as her son has givensuffering to all the citizens. Every citizen calls her "The mother of the traitor" which gives unbearablepain to her heart. So, she decides to leave the city and goes to her son. 

She finds her son crazed with thethirst for more glory. She tries to convince her son by telling him that a hero is he who creates life byconquering death. But he answers very arrogantly that the destroyer is as glorious as the builder of thecity. He has become so blind for the glory that he remains totally unaffected by her persuasion. Finally,Marinna makes her so take rest in her lap and immediately covers him with her black cloak and then killshim by pushing a knife into his heart. Thus by killing her son, she fulfills her duty as a citizen. But she isalso a mother and a mother cannot live her life comfortably by killing her own son. So, she also killsherself with the same knife and fulfills the duty of the mother.

Questions :

1. Write the theme of the story “ the mother of traitor by Maxim Gorky”.

2. What lesson do you learn from this story?

3. What was the conflict in the mothers mind and how did she resolve it?

4. Assume yourself as the traitor and express your feelings towards your mother.