Knowledge and Wisdom is written by popular philosopher Bertrand Russell. In this text he hastried to make essential distinction between knowledge and wisdom. The Latin word “scientium”from which we get the English word “science” means knowledge in the sense of knowing aboutthings(called facts) and the causes of things. In this sense knowledge is something we acquirethrough effort. So a knowledgable person knows not only for example: that fire is hot but alsowhy and how fire is hot.

But wisdom is different. It is a part of inner mind that is inaccessible to us if the highest state ofconsciousness we are in the second state of consciousness. Wisdom only appears when we arein the third state. A wise person will employ that knowledge not only for his own benefit but alsofor the benefit of others. Perhaps he’ll invent a more efficient furnace. Perhaps he’ll helpdevelop a cleaner burning more fuel efficient automobile. A foolish person, by contrast, who isthe exact opposite of a wise person, knows exactly the same thing (fire is hit and why), but willnot use that knowledge wisely. For example he may burn his house “down” and himself “up”because he fell asleep in bed while smoking a slow burning cigarate or cigare. Russell makes thesame point in his essay when talking about SCIENTISTS, learning about “atomic energy” andobtaining the KNOWLEDGE of how to “split the atom”. But those same scientists were UNWISEbecause they temporarily “forgot” (or didn’t think about) who would use that knowledge tomake atomic bombs and do harm.

Russell thinks that wisdom should be the aim of education, when he says the essence of wisdomis emancipation as far as possible, from the tyranny of the here and now(knowledge is largely ofthe here and now” of things). We cannot help the egoism of our senses. Sight sound touch andemotions are bound up with our own bodies and cannot be made impersonal. An infant feelshunger or discomfort and is unaffected except by his own physical condition. But gradually as histhoughts and feelings become less personal and he achieves growing wisdom. No one can viewworld with complete impartiality. But it is possible to make a continual approach towardsimpartiality, which constitutes growth in wisdom. Can wisdom in this sense he taught? And if itcan. Should the teaching of it be one of the aims of education? I should answer both thesequestions in the affirmative.

Russell says the “end” of all human endeavors should be wisdom, since the capacity for wisdomdefines human beings and distinguishes them from all other forms of animal life. But Russelthinks, with every increase of knowledge and skill, wisdom becomes more necessary, for everysuch increase augments our capacity of realizing our purposes, and therefore augments ourcapacity for evil, if our purposes are unwise. The worlds needs wisdom as it has never needed itbefore, and if knowledge continues to increase the world will need wisdom in the future evenmore than it does now. That Russellian description of “increasing knowledge” and “increasingcapacity to do evil” If our purposes are “unwise” indicates that gaining wisdom is a “process”,just as gaining knowledge is a process . But Russell also indicates that the process involvesbecoming less centered on ourselves and the “hear and now” and more “impartial andintellectually broadminded”.So that we may become wise citizens of the world, rather thanmerely good citizens (patriots) of this or that smaller country or faction.

Russell says “It is not only in public ways but in private life equally, that wisdom is needed. It isneeded in the choice of ends to be pursed and in emancipation from personal prejudice. So,once again according to Russell, there is not only public responsibility for leaders andgovernments to make wise decisions (because foolish decisions may have disastrousconsequences upon public life).But also wisdom is “needed” in private life as well. In short,Russel seems to think that our own “choice of ends” (what we are RESPONSIBLE for desiring andattempting to obtain) requires wisdom, for which we are personally responsible.

QUESTIONS:

1.Write the differences between knowledge and wisdom?

2.Explain ‘the egoism of our senses’.What is impartiality?

3.Can wisdom be taught? Can the teaching of it be one of the aim of education?

4.Russell says ‘with the increase of knowledge and skill, wisdom becomes more necessary’.Do you agree with him? Give your own argument.