
In this passage author has delightfully examined the issues about the nature of scientificattitude, two major roles of science developing society and scientist’s methods of thinking andacting which can also be applied by higher to common people for their better prospectives.Physics, biology,chemistry, goology,engineering,medicine etc are different. Sciences taught atdifferent institutes. The nature of science is based upon the keen observation, creativity andexperiment for finding the facts. So the nature of scientific attitude is characterized byobjectivity, open mindedness,skepticism and willingness to suspend judgement if there isinsufficient evidence. Through the process of creativity, observation and experiment scientistsdevelop knowledge which we apply for the betterment of society.

Without any hesitation we can say that science plays important role in the social development.There are two ways in which science often helps to develop our society. The first is theapplication of modern machines,products and systems of applied knowledge that moderntechnologies develop. Modern technology has improved the structures of societies. It has madeour life comfortable , extended life span and longevity. The second way is its application by allmembers of society in a special methods of thought and action that scientists use in their work:By shaping our views on life, men and society, nature and reality and providing the meaning ofour existence, science directs our thought and action and sets the norms and modes of ourconduct.

A successful scientist is often with full of curiosity. Through the process of creativity and keenobservation he is able to cast a situation, challenge and problem in a new light and therebyopens up possibilities. He often thinks out of box and throws light in new probability. He wantsto know not only about the universe but also wants to find how and why the universe works. Heoften directs his attention toward problems. His curiosity leads him to look underlyingrelationship even if the data available seem to be unconnected. He applies logical thought whilemaking observations and utilizes facts he observes to the fullest extent.

The successful scientist or technologist thinks and acts in such ways which characterized him orher as good observer,accurate,skeptical,objective,critical as well as imaginative. He or sheapplies facts to observe things, does not accept statements which are not based on the mostcomplete evidence, thinks everything critically and becomes imaginative while lookingrelationships in data that are complex and incomplete. Furthermore he or she is not only criticalof how processes work and how events take place.


QUESTIONS:

1.What are two ways in which science can help society to develop?

2.Give some examples of the ways in which science influences everyday life.

3.What elements of science can the ordinary citizen use in order to help his society to develop?

4.How can you describe a person who wants to find out how and why universe works?

5.What is the role of curiosity in the work of a scientist?

6.What are the qualities of good server? How they utilize the facts?

7.How do skeptical persons act?

8.For what other purposes does a scientist nood imagination?
