
The short passage is taken from the book ‘Straight and Crooked Thinking’ written by R.H Thullsand C.R Thulls. This book is fundamentally about the ways that people often deceive others andthemselves as well by their use of language. By straight thinking we mean using language tomanipulate people dishonestly or to observe the true meaning of one’s words. That may resultfrom confusion about how one is using language without proper reasoning.

People often fall into avoidable errors because of a failure to reason correctly. There are manyreasons of doing such mistakes. But authors have observed some few reasons of such errorswhich are seriously to be taken. They have summed up the reasons of these errors as follows:People often fall into such error because of their use of words. It frequently happens that whatone person means when he uses a certain word is different from what others mean. In suchsituation the properly used words cannot identify the proper sense for others that createsdifficulties because people do not differentiate clearly enough between clearly enough betweenseveral varieties of the same things. For examples: the words’ intelligence’, oxygen’, ‘accurate’and ‘average’.Use of the word ‘intelligence’ sometimes creates problem because it has morethan one meaning. In such situation a very complicated. Both research chemist and are even lessunderstood by layman. In ‘oxygen’ the problem is even more complicated. Both research chemistand chemical manufacturer identify the word theoretically with the element ‘O’, but in practicethey have different concepts about it.

In course of developing hypothesis sometimes scientists use the words with facts createconfusion which can be understood as common error. That is because they develop thehypothesis on the basis of assumption and give the name of particular things which can be leastbe understood by common people.

Apart from the use of word the error falls on the logics that is known as logical error. Such erroroccurs in logic in the process of thought for reaching to the conclusion from certain premises orgiven statements. The logic is a science of valid inference or reasoning. It can also study theargument. A logic is basically made up of three parts, 1.premise (one or more statements tothink upon), 2.inference (the process of thinking upon the premise), 3.conclusion (result derivedfrom the process of reasoning or inference). For example a young sociologist investigatingliterary in a certain community discovered from official records that over 50% of the populationwere females. He also observed that 70% of the population were literate. After obtaining data hesummed it up and drew conclusion as:

Most of the population are females;

Most of the population are literate;

Therefore, most females are literate.

In this logic the process of thinking upon premise which is reasoning or inference isunreasonable or unacceptable which he himself realized as soon as he re-examined his chain ofreasoning very carefully.

The avoidable error often occurs in unverified or insufficient experimentation. This may easilyoccur at the beginning when there is no properly controlled investigation. Such mistake canconfuse cause and effect. For example the inhabitant of a certain community had noted over theages that whenever one became ill with a fever, the body parasites left him then they made thecorrelation that parasites kept them healthy. Later on properly controlled scientific investigationshowed parasites transmitted several kinds of fever, and then left the sick persons when thelater’s bodies became too hot to live on.

There are some other factors which influence the reasoning are false analogy, missing controlgroup, and the role of authority as a bar to the re-consideration of a problem. These are knownas fallacies in argument that the author considers unreliable thoughts. Scientist’s process ofanalyzing the problem by analoging from another is extremely valuable but it may lead to theadaption of a totally false hypothesis. Thus like scientific investigators ordinary people may fallinto errors without careful observation on the problems. We all do mistakes but we need themto correct as a perfect citizen.

QUESTIONS:

1.Why do people make avoidable errors, and what sort of people make them ?

2.What is the first difficulty connected with the use of words? Give one example.

3.What is logic? How does error occur in logic? Describe it with one example.

4.What evidence did the young sociologist find to support the assumption? What conclusions did he come to as soon as he had re-examined his chain of reasoning?

5.How does error often confuse cause and effect?

6.What are other factors that influence the reasoning? Explain with examples.

7.name a favourable and unfavourable example of the value of analogy in scientific research?